Your job for about five minutes
is to kind of ghost the lunking.
There are a few of these
little ones in here because as
of that grew in complexity,
there are a few like,
when I found a bunch of them,
I was like, great, yeah, totally.
But there are a few of them and see what
interesting ones that we can find and
lead us to work cuz I think it's very
simple app's fine, it's cool, cool.
As it starts to grow, and
again, we wanna use the tools.
What are some of the optimizations?
And some of them, we can talk about
some of them we can do, right?
Cuz some of them just like, as soon as
we understand the philosophical thing,
I think we've got the major point,
but I want you to spend a few minutes,
five minutes, go looking for them, right?
And let's talk about some
of the ones that come up.
I'm gonna look at the chat in the room and
we can kind of figure out which ones what
some are thoughts and theories around
them and what we would do about them.
All right, so there are three or
four, some of them planted.
I will talk about the accidental one.
I will talk about the main one that leads
me to my next point, but I'll do that,
especially when it leads
me to the next point.
Feels appropriate to do towards the end.
Did anyone else find any interesting
ones as they went in triage?
>> I mean standard ones.
I've added three memos regarding
comments or play around with them.
But so I'm around that common common and
post it solves a bunch of renders.
>> Yeah, I want to talk particularly
about the post comments, and
a little bit as well.
But yeah, those as well.
And I think in the drop down with the
users was pulling the users it's nested in
there ,like that one probably
can get its own state and
be completely isolated from
everything else, right?
With just a callback, like we saw before
we just say, yo, when this changes,
let me know but other than that I don't.
This thing is it's got its
own context in there, right?
To point out so, we know that we
have posted we have users, right?
And so to Alex's point, in the post,
right, we have, instead of add comment,
we grabbed the entire list of users,
right?
And so, someone left a console log
in their code, to figure out what
the selected user was theoretically,
that could be encapsulated on its own and
not necessarily need to
involve stuff in here as well.
That's a big one.
Do we have any other interesting ones,
I'll tell you the one that actually I
didn't expect and had to squint, right?
So I kind of alluded to before
we started this I'm like,
I shouldn't get into this part yet.
I should let you explore first, but
any other interesting ones, throughout.
Okay, yeah, well,
we'll call it the obvious one which is
the core set of data structures
is problematic, right?
And where I wanna lead with this is,
we talked about component hierarchy,
we need to talk about the state
hierarchy as well, right?
And there's just some things and
all the memos and
contexts in the world
aren't gonna save you from.
And we'll kind of do the high level cuz a
lot of it is the conceptual understanding,
the actual tedious part of doing the work
is moving stuff from one place to
the other.
Which is somebody who originally planned
to do that in front of you did it with
a test audience and
it was like watching paint dry.
So we will talk about it a little bit.
But I wanna talk about the one
that slightly surprised me and
I think I fixed in this branch.
So we're gonna see how angry
the development server gets if I keep
switching get branches with different
code over and over again on it and
see how it likes that, but we'll find out.
So if we look.
If I go ahead and I'll clear this out
I'll record was moving to user and
maybe it was adding, I forgot.
We got a bunch in here though.
Let's see which one,
I just recreated it to.
I will show you in a moment, if I can't
figure out exactly how I recreated it or
if I'm on the branch that
has effects we'll find out.
Don't embarrass me right now.
So what I got was,
make sure I'm on the right.
Don't save anything,
go back to the way everything was.
>> There was one weird one with children.
>> Yeah, that's the one I'm looking for.
Do you remember how we got that one?
>> I'm on a live coding branch and
I've added memos to,
To users, not the user itself.
>> Yeah, yeah, that's exactly
the one that I'm looking for.
Now, I can't recreate it but
I can show you what the issue was.
So yeah, Alex,
can at least back me up that as well.
Which is we're like, go children
that's great we should do that, right?
And this is again why we test
these things because what is
super interesting is thinking about,
so it's like,
it takes the child component and
we map in the button, I believe, yeah.
Hold on, is this the one that's fixed?
Is that why it's not working?
>> Yeah, [INAUDIBLE] because
I have a different version.
>> All I get jumping around.
>> It's in the user,
it's supposed to be in user JSX.
>> Yeah,
this might actually work on one hand.
Okay, yeah, we can actually see the diff
but let's let's go recreate the problems,
I can verify as you all believe me.
Turns out,
switching git branches repeatedly back and
forth to try to get ready make
a point doesn't always serve you.
So let's go check it out.
>> Tony I believe.
>> Okay.
>> Well you're a mobile user.
>> Yeah they all changed individually,
thinking about when you go about an item,
an individual item didn't change when we
removed another individual item, right?
All the rest of them were like, I'm the
same thing in memory, it's cool, right?
And yet, we get this issue right here,
props changed children, right?
And we're like, yo, I thought the whole
thing when we're gonna pull content up and
we're gonna have the children,
is that it's all gonna work, right?
And yes, but again, rules apply and
things exist for reasons, right?
So the reason why that
works is because when
something happens in the lower component
when we saw it with the stupid game,
right?
The problematic component was slotted
in in between parts of the game,
but it lived up in application, right?
And so cool, it was the same
component React's like, I know you,
you're not even on my path,
nothing, right?
Nothing has changed,
it never trigger the change
the application to start at that subtree.
Never even went up and looked.
The interesting part is here,
these children are delineated
by the array of users, right?
And so before that was just a component
that existed that I put in here.
When we remove a user,
what are we doing to the array of users?
>> It's a new every time.
>> We're throwing out the array of users,
which means we threw out this
array of children and replaced it.
So any performance optimization
that we thought we were getting to
make a point didn't work because yes,
they are children, but
that is a set of children that
are based on an array that is changing.
Which causes them to get thrown out,
right?
And so, it's why sometimes,
just following, it's like even for
all the ones that I hid,
that's not one that I hid.
All right that was one that was
like ,that's weird as I was like,
you hide the Easter eggs and you check
on them before the kid wakes up, right?
I'm like, that's a that's a super
interesting one because I was just,
again, I was just going about my
business whipping up an example app.
Tried to make a few different points and
didn't expect that one, right?
And then I had to squint a few
days ago and look at it and
be like, yeah, that's interesting, right?
Because it seemed innocuous,
it seemed like it was just the thing,
that's what I wasn't even thinking about.
I'm gonna pull this up cuz it's
more performing, I was just like,
this seems easier right on.
But understanding that, yeah,
it's really a game about how
JavaScript cheats objects in memory and
some of the things with immutable
state and what that means.
The fact that we keep everything
mutable is not a first class citizen in
JavaScript, there aren't
immutable data structures.
We do these things now almost out of
habit where we spread operators and
stuff like that.
But sometimes, you will be surprised
even as you just think you're just
doing the thing that this, yeah,
this is using the children.
But because the act of doing this does
cause a brand new in that higher level.
You could also see this then if I did that
to stop a cascade down a bunch of other
components I've accidentally
retriggered the entire cascade, right?
There's, again, this app isn't
big enough to do all of that.
But those subtle little things, if you're
not kind of getting in the habit of taking
a look every once in a while and
as you're implementing stuff.
You should not over rotate on performance
all the time at the absence of
getting anything done, right?
But as you're coding, you should develop
the habit of the same way you go,
what happens if I put an emoji
in this input field, right?
On the unhappy path of being like,
does this perform?
This is doing what I expected to
do because that cause a rerender,
could have got the bug, right?
What if I never expected those
components to mount and unmount?
What if they did something
theoretically like,
they had to use a fact that was hooked up
to a web socket or something like that.
All sorts of different things
that weren't totally expecting,
these same principles
about how React work.
Yes, totally more performing apps,
absolutely, here for it.
But at the same time, they are also like,
okay, this is how the underlying
fundamentals actually work and
this is what they're doing for us.
Hopefully, if tuples and
the immutable record objects come out,
we should get better primitives for this.
Yes, there was still be, again,
we are left with the hard,
squishy parts of programming.
And so
things constantly keep getting better,
especially in the JavaScript ecosystem,
but building the muscle memory and
habit of just occasionally
checking in on these things.
And seeing it,
I think does create really useful and
allows him to insights to write,
again, in a larger app over time.
This might not have even been a
performance issue as much as it might have
had weird unexpected side effects, right?
So I think that these things go
hand in hand and the act of doing
this also gives you a deeper depth
into what React is doing and why.
Didn't even occur to me until I was
here with this thing a week ago.
And so that's super interesting.
The other one that we saw,
there's a lot going on,
most of the meat lives in
the post comment thing right?
The data which both is not great and
also not totally shocking
from other things that I've
seen is somewhat common.
Which is a collection
is an array right on.
It has the user kind of baked in,
which is weird because I have
a different list of users, right?
So what happens if I do need
to change the user's name?
Now I have two places to do it, right?
It's tricky because sometimes
that is a good choice.
And sometimes it's not but
it's been thinking of these things.
But the interesting part is
the act of removing a comment
also like rerendered an entire post,
right?
And there's no number of memos in
the world that are gonna save me from
that one, right?
And this is one of those things which is,
we have a tendency because our UIs
are these tree-like structures.
That our data structure should
be a tree-like structure, right?
But if you've ever, especially,
in a Redux like thing or
reducer like thing where you're like,
okay, I need to change something.
Three things deep in a data
structure is like spread operator,
spread operator spread operator,
right, to get to that bottom thing and
you have to rebuild
everything all the way up.
Yeah this is working with
immutable data structures, but
if your memory lane on something
having the same reference in memory,
then what are you doing to that memo,
right?
You are actively recreating,
if you wanted to change the user
name on this comment, cool,
you immutably spread out and
replace that entire object.
And you can see these actually
have comments built in too, right?
This goes,
it gets a little insane on purpose.
Then you'd have to, they're the comments
array, that's, yeah, separate in there.
You get the user,
you'd have to then rebuild the comments,
you'd have to rebuild the post.
So you end up in your data structure,
React aside,
the simple act of changing your
immutable data structure is
triggering all these re-renders
regardless of what you do, right?
And so, I think the two things
I definitely just wanna, and
one I've said repeatedly, but why not?
Is that the component hierarchy can
sometimes matter more than the tools that
are meant for
helping with performance, but
also the structure of your state, right?
Actually in the beginning of a project,
right, sitting down and
think about regardless of
what you get from the API,
think about what is the structure of the
state that I need for this application.
And what do I need to do early on.
Cuz sometimes once it's wired in there,
the weight of the refactor
becomes untenable, right?
And so, again, sometimes we don't get
to make these decisions over there.
It's usually a new future somewhere we can
decide to do this of thinking about how
are we gonna orchestrate this?
And yes, as a front end engineer
who's been doing this for a while,
I have the deepest empathy for we all
don't get the APIs that we want, right?
We fight the battle with the APIs that
we have, not with the APIs that we want.
I have had to do dark things like
stitch together seven different APIs.
I once said, somebody asked me,
what does a front end architect do?
My joke was how you like to break stuff
into tiny little microservices that don't
know anything about each other?
He's like, yeah.
I'm like, my job is to hide
that from our customers and
make sure they never
know that you did that.
Right, but
there are things to think about.
And so one of the patterns that I
really like that is more of a kind
of state management data
structure pattern, but
I think has immeasurable benefits
on your React application.
Is having a layer that even if you
have a back end for front end Great.
Good luck now being on call for a service.